There are other investment classes
that we have not discussed yet in this course
and I recommend avoiding most of these
following investment classes if you can.
The first one I wanna talk about is
private company investments
meaning venture capital investments.
These private company investments are highly eliquid,
meaning they're very difficult to sell
and most of them, almost all of them go to zero.
So for every story you hear about somebody investing
in Google or Facebook when it was private,
there are countless thousands of stories
of investments in private companies that went belly up,
meaning they went bankrupt.
And so in the venture capital industry here,
we refer to companies that have a value
of over one billion dollars as being called uniquence
and statistically speaking, you have a better chance
of getting struck by lightening than investing
in a unicorn.
So if you're gonna make a private
or venture capital investment
just make sure please that it is
a very, very tiny percentage of your net worth
and your portfolio that you can certainly afford to lose.
Just keep in mind there's a good chance
you'll lose of it.
And don't invest in your family or friend's
private companies or you might very well
lose them as friends.
It's happened to me.
Number two, options.
Please don't invest in puts or calls, meaning options
or what are called derivatives, same thing kind of,
as your losses can literally be unlimited
and Warren Buffett calls derivatives,
weapons of mass financial destruction.
And he's so right, man.
Because so many investment funds, hedge funds, et cetera,
went belly up in 2008 because of excess leverage.
The only exception here is to use puts or calls,
is if a company that you work for
that has given you stock and you're not allowed,
you can't sell that stock 'cause it's a private company
or you're locked up for some reason
and that's like 99% of your net worth,
then you might be able to buy puts on a similar company
to hedge yourself, and so before you do this though,
I want you to please speak with a professional money manager
or your accountant, actually and your accountant.
Call your accountant first about this
as structuring these investments can be
very, very complicated and I don't want you
to lose money.
Number three, leveraged investments.
Never borrow money and invest money in stocks
or other investment classes.
We will save borrowing money for our mortgage
on our primary residence only.
Okay, number four, collectables.
Only invest in collectables if it's something
you are incredibly passionate about
and if it's your hobby and make sure you can sell
these collectables if needed.
How do you know if you can and what you can get from them?
Go to eBay and see what you can get for them.
But make sure that you deduct at least a 10% fee from eBay
'cause of PayPal fees, et cetera.
And when you go and search on eBay
make sure you can go and do an advanced search
and filter based on recent sales,
meaning sales actually went through
instead of auctions that expired and nobody bought the item.
I wanna talk a little bit about...
I wanna talk a little bit about
baseball cards and hockey cards and comic books as well.
And that'll be the rest of this lesson.
If you're not interested in this stuff
just please skip to the next lesson.
I was a big collector when I was a kid
and I'm gonna nerd out big time.
I actually did a bunch of research into this.
The difference between a card that looks perfect
versus a card that almost looks perfect,
can be hundreds of thousands of dollars.
A Wayne Gretzky rookie card that's in perfect condition
is at least 100 grand and one that is just slightly
below perfect can be worth literally
a couple hundred bucks.
Actually, I did research on it and I called the companies
that do all these ratings and I asked them.
And so there's two main companies.
So for cards, the best company out there
is called PSA,
PSACARD.COM, you can go to that website.
They rate all the cards.
So what you do is you send in your cards
and then they will rate them.
And if it's a 10 out of 10 like this one is here,
they're absolutely perfect.
I don't know Chris if you can zoom in on that,
but it's a 10 out of 10.
The corners are perfect.
You literally, here I go, I'm nerding out here.
You literally put these on like this
and there's four different lenses.
I'm now older, so I gotta put it farther away,
but the card has gotta be absolutely perfect.
The corners, everything about it for it to be
a 10 out of 10.
God, I'm such a nerd.
But if you look at a Rickey Henderson rookie card,
the difference between a nine out of 10
and a 10 out of 10 is $30,000 or a couple hundred bucks.
Actually, I'll include nines and 10s here
for the Rickey Henderson sample card.
So that's that.
Now when it comes to comic books,
there's a company that does the comic books.
It's not PSA Card, it's SGC.
For example, I had this one growing up.
This was Wolverine.
I think I got this in the 70s.
I'm dating myself.
It cost me 60 cents, which is a lot back then.
But this one here, I thought it was perfect.
I was all excited.
Wolverine number one.
And I got it rated and it was a nine out of 10 by CGC.
And so nine out of 10 is not really worth as much
as say a 10 out of 10, not even close
or 9 out of 10, there's no such thing as 10 out of 10
I don't think on comic books.
But anyway, you can go to CGC and they'll tell you
all about it and they'll help you out.
Call them as well if you want
before sending in your comics to get graded.
For those of you that collect,
that are old and pathetic like me,
that collected comics when you were a kid,
these things can be worth a bunch of money now
because they made a lot of movies out of these things.
Like Marvel was bought by Disney.
Disney made a gazillion movies, whatever.
Even I had a comic book when I was a kid
that I found recently, which is Rocket Raccoon.
I don't know why I had it, but I have it.
It's worth some money because of the movie
Guardians of the Galaxy.
I had no idea they were gonna make a movie out of that
when I was a kid, but anyway,
it's fun to collect this stuff.
I had a ton of Wayne Gretzky rookies when I was a kid,
tons of them and I'm such an idiot.
I put them actually on my bike
into the wheels so that it sounds
like a motorbike on my old BMX bike.
Anyway, I'm an idiot.
Before I let you go I wanna tell you
a quick story about Rickey Henderson.
This guy was awesome.
He's the fastest baseball player ever.
He had a lot of stolen bases.
He actually lives not too far away from here
in a much better house than I'll ever even
dream of living in.
This is a funny story.
Years ago, he got a signing bonus for a million dollars
and he took that million dollar check he got
and he put it up on the wall and he framed it.
And at the end of the year, the accounting department
of the Oakland Athletics baseball team out here
called him and said, hey Rickey are you gonna
cash that check?
But anyway, he kept it on the wall.
This guy is a legend.
I love this guy.
Anyway, here's kind of a funny video on that
if you wanna watch it.
Separately, with baseball cards
if you have any cards in the 1990s,
they're not worth anything.
The sweet spot is pre 87
and anybody that's in the hall of famous
is worth a bunch.
Comic books, it's I'd say probably pre 87 as well.
What happened in both those industries
comics and cards is post 87,
there's a massive supply increase
because everyone was collecting back then,
and so cards that are like after 87 or so
and comics after 87 or so are worth almost nothing.
In fact, most baseball card companies
went almost belly up and the only one
that really survived was Topps,
which bought most of the other companies
and now their prices are higher
because they own the market.
Remember I talked about monopolies and oligopolies
with Warren Buffett.
Actually, just like we talked about supply and demand
with the Wii thing and interest rates and money
and the price of money interest rates,
the same thing can be said with comic books
and think about them the same way as well.
I love the industry.
I love baseball, so if you have any questions
about any of this stuff, just please let me know.
Okay, thanks.